READ THIS EVERY MORNING WHEN YOU LOG IN. 

--------------------
 HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS
--------------------
> DO NOT TALK POLITICS IN HOME. 
> WORK EVERYDAY HARD ENOUGH SUCH THAT YOU SLEEP PEACEFULLY AT END OF DAY.
> DO NOT SPEAK TOO MUCH. THERE WILL BE LESS TROUBLE IN YOUR LIFE. 
> DO NOT GET INVOLVED ANYTHING APART FROM OFFICE WORK. DELEGATE WORK USING MONEY. 
> DON'T THINK ABOUT ANYTHING OTHER THAN WORK.
> DO NOT CRITICISE YOUR SPOUSE AT ANY COST. 
> DO NOT CRITICISE ANYONE EVER. ITS EXPENSIVE. 
> DO NOT COMPLAIN ABOUT A PERSON, A THING OR A SITUATION 
> DO NOT GIVE FREE ADVICE. PEOPLE ALREADY KNOW EVERYTHING. 
> ALWAYS SAY TRUTH, NECESSARY and KIND THINGS. DO NOT HURT.
> DO NOT GET INTO ARGUMENT WITH ANYONE. IDENTIFY ARGUMENT AND ASK QUESTIONS TO AVOID ARGUMENT.
> IDENTIFY SITUATION OF ARGUMENT, KEEP SILENT. LISTEN. DON'T SAY ANYTHING.
> SILENCE IS SOLUTION TO MANY PROBLEMS. 
> DO NOT REACT IMMEDIATELY. TAKE YOUR TIME AND RESPOND. 
> SPEND SOME TIME COOKING FOOD THAT PEOPLE LIKE. 
> ALWAYS FOLLOW PRINCIPLE OF "simple living, high thinking"
> FIX ONE PROBLEM AT A TIME. DIVIDE AND CONQUER. 
> KEEP ATTITUDE OF GRATITUDE TOWARDS ALL THINGS THAT GOD HAS GIVEN YOU.
> CHILDREN HAVE THEIR OWN FATE. DONT TRY TO DRIVE / CONTROL TOO MUCH
> EVERYDAY DO SOMETHING TO PUT SMILE ON SOMEONES FACE. 
> WE ARE ALL PORCUPINES STAYING TOGETHER TO SAVE FROM WINTER. SO POCKING IS GOING TO HAPPEN.
> DO NOT TALK LOUDLY. DO NOT SHOUT AT ANYONE.
> CLOSE YOUR EYES WHEN COMPILING. THINKING.

--------------------
 TECHNICAL
--------------------
> LISTEN TO TECHNOLOGY VIDEOS ON UDEMY AND REPEAT IN YOUR TUTORIAL.
> TRY OUT SMALL PROJECTS. PRACTICE PROGRAMS PRACTICAL. 
> FOCUS ALL YOUR ENERGY IMPROVING YOURSELF IN ALL ASPECTS.
> DONT WASTE TIME SURFING ON INTERNET WITH QUORA AND NEWS 
> GOT BORED ? CHANGE IN WORK IS A WAY TO REST.
> STAY AWAY FROM MOBILE PHONE. KEEP IT HIDDEN ALL THE TIME.
> WHEN USING COMPUTER, DO ONLY TECHNICAL WORK. 
> FOCUS ON SOMETHING WHERE YOU WILL ALWAYS WIN. PROGRAMMING. 
> READ GOOGLE C++ CODING STYLE DOCUMENT. THIS WILL IMPROVE YOUR C++ SKILLS
> ALWAYS GO THROUGH YOUR GIT PROJECTS, IT WILL REFRESH YOUR CONCEPTS. 
> INSTEAD OF 10 MINUTES OF TIMEPASS YOU CAN SPEND IN 10 MINUTES IN RECORDING SOME SIMPLE TUTORIAL.

HEALTH
--------------------
> TAKE DEEP BREATH
> TAKE BREAK EVERY 30 MINUTES
> EVERY 20 MINUTES, LOOK AT 20 FEET FOR 20 SECONDS
> DRINK PLENTY OF WATER
> ALWAYS FOLLOW SLEEP SCHEDULE. SLEEP BEFORE 11:00. WAKEUP EARLY. 
> DO NOT LOOK AT ANY SCREENS AFTER DINNER. READ A LITTLE. 
> DRINK MILK STANDING

SPIRITUAL
> CHANT ATLEAST 1 ROUND DAILY.
> DO THE KIRTAN AFTER DINNER 
> PREPARE PRASADAM ON HOLIDAY.

QUOTES
-----------------

> Small disciplines repeated with consistency every day lead to great achievements over time. 
> Having good relationship, compassion and peace of mind is much more important than achievements, awards, degrees or money 
> Best revenge is to improve yourself and massive success 
> weak people revenge, strong people forgive, intelligent people ignore. 
> Kill them with success, bury them with smile. 
> Never share your secrets with anyone, it will destroy you
> Once you start working on something don't be afraid of failure and don't abandon it. 
  people who work sincerely are the happiest. 
> Starting point of all achievements is desire. Keep this constantly in your mind. 
  weak desire brings weak results just like small fire makes small heat. 
  
7 Habits of highly effective people
-----------------------------------------
> Be proactive (See alternatives, not roadblocks. Focus on what you can influence. 
  I am free to choose and I am responsible for my choices)
> Begin with end in mind (Mental creation precedes physical creation. Define practical outcomes)
> Put First things first (Focus on the important, not just the urgent. Plan weekly, act daily)
> Think Win Win (Effective long term relation requires mutual respect and mutual benefit. Build trust with coworkers.)
> Seek first to understand then to be understood (To communicate effectively we must understand each other. 
  Practice empathic listening. Give honest,accurate feedback)
> Synergize. Balance. (The whole is greater than sum of its parts. Think of new and better alternatives)
> Sharpen the saw (To maintain and increase effectiveness, we must renew ourselves in body, heart, mind and soul).

Eat that Frog
--------------------
> Secret of success. Think on paper.
> Do the most difficult and important task first, Everyday.
> Do your work quickly and with good quality
> Write goals and review them everyday
> Plan everyday in advance. 
> Divide big and difficult tasks in small pieces. 
> Put priority on every task using A to D and execute them
> Motivate yourself into action 
> Put the pressure on yourself
> Most valuable asset is your earning ability

> IDENTIFY YOUR FROG. EAT IT. REPEAT EVERY DAY. 
  You will be amazed how quickly small steps taken consistently add up to big accomplishments. 
> Decide exactly what you want. Write it down. set deadline on your goal. IT gives goal urgency. 
  For you to achieve any kind of success, execution is everything. 
> Single handle every task. 
> Apply 80/20 rule. 20% of your activities will account for 80% of the results. 
> Focus on key result areas. What do you need to do everday to do your job well ? Do those items. 
> The hardest part of any important task is getting started on it in the first place. 

Deep work
embrace boredom: Many assume that they can switch between a state of distraction and one of concentration as needed, but as I just argued, this assumption is optimistic: Once you’re wired for distraction, you crave it

Rich Dad, Poor Dad
-----------------------
> Have a clear purpose in mind
> Be in control over your emotions
> Work to learn, don't work to earn 
> Listening is more important than talking
> Failures inspires winners and defeats losers
> Do not aim for more income, aim for more assets
> You will become what you study, so choose your study material carefully
> For most people their profession is their income, for rich people their assets are their income

WISDOM
--------

>Most of the time people say that things should be fair to everyone. 
SO if 2 persons are buying something which costs 100rs then Ideally both persons should pay 50rs each.
But Is this world really fair. Is the mother nature fair with everyone ? 
Some people are born blind when most of the people have their eyes. Is Nature fair with Blind people ? Can anyone trade their eyes for any amount of money ? 
Some people are born with missing hands/legs/genitals/deformed body parts/defective eyes/ defective hearing abilities and so on.
Is nature fair with them ?

>people born in same family have completely different fate. They look different. They live different lives. They die at different time.
So where is fairness ??
When god doesn't offer fair things who are we to assume that everyone should get fair things?
All we can do is try our best with our tiny minds to make things fair for everyone but in reality we can never ensure fairness.


------------------------------------------------------------------
How to win friends and influence PEOPLE
------------------------------------------------------------------
Part 1: Fundamental Techniques in Handling People

Principle 1: Don’t criticize, condemn or complain
Principle 2: Give honest and sincere appreciation
Principle 3: Arouse in the other person an eager want

Part 2: Six Ways to Make People Like You

Principle 1: Become genuinely interested in other people
Principle 2: Smile
Principle 3: Remember that a person’s name is to that person the sweetest and most important sound in any language
Principle 4: Be a good listener
Principle 5: Talk in terms of the other person’s interests
Principle 6: Make the other person feel important—and do it sincerely

Part 3: How to Win People to Your Way of Thinking

Principle 1: The only way to get the best of an argument is to avoid it
Principle 2: Show respect for the other person’s opinions. Never say, “You’re wrong.”
Principle 3: If you are wrong, admit it quickly and emphatically
Principle 4: Begin in a friendly way
Principle 5: Get the other person saying, “yes, yes” immediately
Principle 6: Let the other person do a great deal of the talking
Principle 7: Let the other person feel that the idea is his or hers
Principle 8: Try honestly to see things from the other person’s point of view
Principle 9: Be sympathetic with the other person’s ideas and desires
Principle 10: Appeal to the nobler motives
Principle 11: Dramatize your ideas
Principle 12: Throw down a challenge

Part 4: Be a Leader—How to Change People Without Giving Offense or Rousing Resentment

Principle 1: Begin with praise and honest appreciation
Principle 2: Call attention to people’s mistakes indirectly
Principle 3: Talk about your own mistakes before criticizing the other person
Principle 4: Ask questions instead of giving direct orders
Principle 5: Let the other person save face
Principle 6: Praise the slightest improvement and praise every improvement. Be “hearty in your approbation and lavish in your praise.”
Principle 7: Give the other person a fine reputation to live up to
Principle 8: Use encouragement. Make the fault seem easy to correct
Principle 9: Make the other person happy about doing the thing you suggest


------------------------------------------------------------------
How to Win Friends and Influence People Summary
---------------------------------------------------------
Ninety-nine times out of a hundred, people don’t criticize themselves for anything, no matter how wrong it may be.

Criticism is futile because it puts us on the defensive and usually makes us strive to justify ourselves. Criticism is dangerous, because it wounds our pride, hurts our sense of importance, and arouses resentment.

Don’t criticize others; they are just what we would be under similar circumstances.

“Don’t complain about the snow on your neighbor’s roof when your own doorstep is unclean.”—Confucius

We’re not logical; we’re emotional, motivated by pride and vanity.

“I will speak ill of no man and speak all the good I know of everybody.”—Benjamin Franklin

Rather than condemn others, try to understand them. Try to figure out why they do what they do.

We all want to be appreciated.

“I consider my ability to arouse enthusiasm among my people. The greatest asset I possess and t way to develop the best that is in a person is by appreciation and encouragement.”—Charles Schwab

Before trying to persuade someone to do something, ask yourself, “How can I make this person want to do it?”

“If there is any one secret of success it lies in the ability to get the other person’s point of view and see things from that person’s angle as well as from your own.”—Henry Ford

“You can make more friends in two months by becoming interested in other people than you can in two years by trying to get other people interested in you.”

“It is the individual who is not interested in his fellow men who has the greatest difficulties in life and provides the greatest injury to others. It is from among such individuals that all human failures spring.”  

Encourage others to talk about themselves.

Always make the others feel important.

Most people you meet will feel superior to you in some way. A sure way to their hearts is to let them realize in some subtle way that you recognize their importance, and recognize it sincerely.

“Talk to people about themselves and they will listen for hours.”—Disraeli

“If you argue and rankle and contradict, you may achieve a victory sometimes; but it will be an empty victory because you will never get your opponent’s good will.”

How to keep a disagreement from becoming an argument:

Welcome the disagreement
Distrust your first instinctive impression
Control your temper
Listen first
Look for areas of agreement
Be honest
Promise to think over your opponents’ ideas and study them carefully
Thank your opponents sincerely for their interest
Postpone action to give both sides time to think through the problem
“There’s magic, positive magic, in such phrases as: ‘I may be wrong. I frequently am. Let’s examine the facts.’”

“Don’t argue with your customer or your spouse or your adversary. Don’t tell them they are wrong. Don’t get them stirred up. Use a little diplomacy.”

“If we know we are going to be rebuked anyhow, isn’t it far better to beat the other person to it and do it ourselves?”

“Say about yourself all the derogatory things you know the other person is thinking or wants to say or intends to say—and say them before that person has a chance to say them.”

When you’re right, try to win people gently and tactfully to your way of thinking. When you’re wrong, admit your mistakes quickly and with enthusiasm.

“In talking with people, don’t begin by discussing the things on which you differ. Begin by emphasizing—and keep on emphasizing—the things on which you agree. Keep emphasizing, if possible, that you are both striving for the same end and that your only difference is one of method and not of purpose. Get the other person saying, ‘Yes, yes’ at the outset. Keep your opponent, if possible, from saying ‘No.’”

“Remember that other people may be totally wrong. But they don’t think so. Don’t condemn them. Any fool can do that. Try to understand them. Only wise, tolerant, exceptional people even try to do that”

“If, as a result of reading this book, you get only one thing—an increased tendency to think always in terms of the other person’s point of view, and see things from that person’s angle as well as your own—if you get only that one thing from this book, it may easily prove to be one of the stepping—stones of your career.”

How to stop arguments, eliminate ill feeling, create good will, and make the other person listen attentively: “I don’t blame you one iota for feeling as you do. If I were you I would undoubtedly feel just as you do.”

“Three-fourths of the people you will ever meet are hungering and thirsting for sympathy. Give it to them, and they will love you.”

It’s always easier to listen to unpleasant things after we have heard some praise of our good points.

“Calling attention to one’s mistakes indirectly works wonders with sensitive people who may resent bitterly any direct criticism.”

“It isn’t nearly so difficult to listen to a recital of your faults if the person criticizing begins by humbly admitting that he, too, is far from impeccable.”

“Admitting one’s own mistakes—even when one hasn’t corrected them—can help convince somebody to change his behavior.”

“People are more likely to accept an order if they have had a part in the decision that caused the order to be issued.”

“Everybody likes to be praised, but when praise is specific, it comes across as sincere—not something the other person may be saying just to make one feel good.”

“If you want to improve a person in a certain aspect, act as though that particular trait were already one of his or her outstanding characteristics.”

“Tell your child, your spouse, or your employee that he or she is stupid or dumb at a certain thing, has no gift for it and is doing it all wrong, and you have destroyed almost every incentive to try to improve. But use the opposite technique—be liberal with your encouragement, make the thing seem easy to do, let the other person know that you have faith in his ability to do it, that he has an undeveloped flair for it—and he will practice until the dawn comes in the window in order to excel.”

“Always make the other person happy about doing the thing you suggest.”

The effective leader should keep the following guidelines in mind when it is necessary to change attitudes or behavior:   

Do not promise anything that you cannot deliver. Forget about the benefits to yourself and concentrate on the benefits to the other person
Know exactly what it is you want the other person to do
Ask yourself what is it the other person really wants
Consider the benefits that person will receive from doing what you suggest
Match those benefits to the other person’s wants
When you make your request, put it in a form that will convey to the other person the idea that he personally will benefit


------------------------------------------------------------------
The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen R. Covey
------------------------------------------------------------------
The Book in Three Sentences
Success encompasses a balance of personal and professional effectiveness.
Before you can adopt the seven habits, you need to change your perception and interpretation of how the world works (see: paradigm shift).
Between what happens to you and your response to it is your freedom to choose that response.
The Five Big Ideas
Proactive people work on the things they can do something about.
Management is doing things right; leadership is doing the right things.
A paradigm is a way to “see” the world.
We see the world, not as it is, but as we are conditioned to “see” it.
To make relatively minor changes in your life, focus on your attitudes and behaviors. To make significant, quantum change, work on your basic paradigms.

The Five Big Ideas
Proactive people work on the things they can do something about.
Management is doing things right; leadership is doing the right things.
A paradigm is a way to “see” the world.
We see the world, not as it is, but as we are conditioned to “see” it.
To make relatively minor changes in your life, focus on your attitudes and behaviors. To make significant, quantum change, work on your basic paradigms

The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People Summary
---------------------------------------------------
“Leadership is communicating others’ worth and potential so clearly that they are inspired to see it in themselves.”

The Character Ethic teaches that there are basic principles of effective living and that people can only experience true success and enduring happiness as they learn and integrate these principles into their basic character.
To focus on technique is like cramming your way through school.
“What you are shouts so loudly in my ears I cannot hear what you say.”—Thomas Edison
We have many maps in our heads and each can be divided into two main categories: maps of the way things are, or realities, and maps of the way things should be, or values.
“We interpret everything we experience through these mental maps. We seldom question their accuracy; we’re usually even unaware that we have them. We simply assume that the way we see things is the way they really are or the way they should be.”
“To try to change outward attitudes and behaviors do very little good in the long run if we fail to examine the basic paradigms from which those attitudes and behaviors flow.”
“We see the world, not as it is, but as we are—or, as we are conditioned to see it.”
“Our paradigms, correct or incorrect, are the sources of our attitudes and behaviors, and ultimately our relationships with others.”
“If we want to make relatively minor changes in our lives, we can perhaps appropriately focus on our attitudes and behaviors. But if we want to make significant, quantum change, we need to work on our basic paradigms.”
“Paradigms are inseparable from character. Being is seeing in the human dimension. And what we see is highly interrelated to what we are.”
“Paradigms are powerful because they create the lens through which we see the world. The power of a paradigm shift is the essential power of quantum change, whether that shift is an instantaneous or a slow and deliberate process.”
On practices vs. principles: “Practices are situationally specific. Principles are deep, fundamental truths that have universal application.”
“Principles are the territory. Values are maps. When we value correct principles, we have the truth—a knowledge of things as they are.”
“Admission of ignorance is often the first step in our education.”
“The way we see the problem is the problem.”
“The significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of thinking we were at when we created them.”—Albert Einstein
“We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.”—Aristotle
“Sow a thought, reap an action; sow an action, reap a habit; sow a habit, reap a character; sow a character, reap a destiny.”
Stephen defines a habit as the intersection of knowledge, skill, and desire. Knowledge is the theoretical paradigm, the what to do and the why. Skill is the how to do. And desire is the motivation, the want to do. To make something a habit in our lives, Stephen explains, we need to have all three.

“Private victories precede public victories.”

True effectiveness is a function of two things: what is produced (the golden eggs) and the producing asset or capacity to produce (the goose).

Effectiveness lies in the balance—what Stephen calls the P/PC Balance. P stands for production of desired results, the golden eggs. PC stands for production capability, the ability or asset that produces the golden eggs.
“I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor.”—Henry David Thoreau
“We are not our feelings. We are not our moods. We are not even our thoughts. The very fact that we can think about these things separates us from them and from the animal world.”
There are three social maps—three theories of determinism widely accepted, independently or in combination, to explain the nature of man:

Genetic determinism. This basically says your grandparents did it to you. That’s why you have such a temper.
Psychic determinism. This basically says your parents did it to you.
Environmental determinism. This basically says your boss is doing it to you—or your spouse, or that bratty teenager, or your economic situation, or national policies. Someone or something in your environment is responsible for your situation.
Between what happens to you, or the stimulus and your response to it is your freedom or power to choose that response. (Sam: this is similar to what Ryan Holiday writes in The Obstacle Is the Way.)
“Between stimulus and response, man has the freedom to choose.”
“Proactive people can carry their own weather with them. Whether it rains or shines makes no difference to them. They are value driven; and if their value is to produce good quality work, it isn’t a function of whether the weather is conducive to it or not.”
“The ability to subordinate an impulse to a value is the essence of the proactive person. Reactive people are driven by feelings, by circumstances, by conditions, by their environment. Proactive people are driven by values—carefully thought about, selected and internalized values.”
“Proactive people are still influenced by external stimuli, whether physical, social, or psychological. But their response to the stimuli, conscious or unconscious, is a value-based choice or response.”
“It’s not what happens to us, but our response to what happens to us that hurts us.”
Victor Frankl suggests that there are three central values in life:

The experiential, or that which happens to us
The creative, or that which we bring into existence
The attitudinal, or our response in difficult circumstances such as terminal illness.
“What matters most is how we respond to what we experience in life.”
“Proactive people focus their efforts in the Circle of Influence. They work on the things they can do something about. The nature of their energy is positive, enlarging and magnifying, causing their Circle of Influence to increase.”
The problems we face fall in one of three areas:

Direct control. Problems involving our own behavior
Indirect control. Problems involving other people’s behavior
No control. Problems we can do nothing about, such as our past or situational realities. (Sam: this is similar to what William B. Irvine writes in A Guide to The Good Life: “There are things over which we have complete control, things over which we have no control at all, and things over which we have some but not complete control.”)
“‘Begin with the end in mind’ is based on the principle that all things are created twice. There’s a mental or first creation, and a physical or second creation, to all things.”
“Management is doing things right; leadership is doing the right things. Management is efficiency in climbing the ladder of success; leadership determines whether the ladder is leaning against the right wall.”
“The two additional unique human endowments that enable us to expand our proactivity and to exercise personal leadership in our lives are imagination and conscience.”
“Writing or reviewing a mission statement changes you because it forces you to think through your priorities deeply, carefully, and to align your behavior with your beliefs. As you do, other people begin to sense that you’re not being driven by everything that happens to you. You have a sense of mission about what you’re trying to do and you are excited about.”
A good affirmation has five basic ingredients:

It’s personal
It’s positive
It’s present tense
It’s visual
It’s emotional.
An example of an affirmation: “It is deeply satisfying (emotional) that I (personal) respond (present tense) with wisdom, love, firmness, and self-control (positive) when my children misbehave.” (Sam: Jack Canfield writes about the power of affirmations and visualization in The Success Principles.)

“The challenge is not to manage time, but to manage ourselves.”
“You simply can’t think efficiency with people. You think effectiveness with people and efficiency with things.”
“Peace of mind comes when your life is in harmony with true principles and values and in no other way.”


--------------------------------------------
Awaken The Giant Within by Anthony Robbins
--------------------------------------------

The Book in Three Sentences
“Any time you sincerely want to make a change, the first thing you must do is to raise your standards and believe you can meet them”.
“We must change our belief system and develop a sense of certainty that we can and will meet the new standards before we actually do”.
“It’s not what we do once in a while that shapes our lives, but what we do consistently”.

The Five Big Ideas
“The three decisions that control your destiny are: 1. Your decisions about what to focus on. 2. Your decisions about what things mean to you. 3. Your decisions about what to do to create the results you desire”.
“By changing any one of these five elements—whether it’s a core belief or rule, a value, a reference, a question, or an emotional state—you can immediately produce a powerful and measurable change in your life”.
“Everything you and I do, we do either out of our need to avoid pain or our desire to gain pleasure”.
“It’s not the events of our lives that shape us, but our beliefs as to what those events mean”.
“Focus on where you want to go, not on what you fear”.

Awaken The Giant Within Summary
“Any time you sincerely want to make a change, the first thing you must do is to raise your standards and believe you can meet them”.
“We must change our belief system and develop a sense of certainty that we can and will meet the new standards before we actually do”.
“You see, in life, lots of people know what to do, but few people actually do what they know”.
“In essence, if we want to direct our lives, we must take control of our consistent actions. It’s not what we do once in a while that shapes our lives, but what we do consistently”.
“It’s in your moments of decision that your destiny is shaped”.
“Not only do you have to decide what results you are committed to, but also the kind of person that you’re committed to becoming”.
“If you don’t set a baseline standard for what you’ll accept in your life, you’ll find it’s easy to slip into behaviors and attitudes or a quality of life that’s far below what you deserve”.
“If you truly decide to, you can do almost anything”.
“Making a true decision means committing to achieving a result, and then cutting yourself off from any other possibility”.
“The three decisions that control your destiny are 1. Your decisions about what to focus on. 2. Your decisions about what things mean to you. 3. Your decisions about what to do to create the results you desire”.
“It’s likely that whatever challenges you have in your life currently could have been avoided by some better decisions upstream”.
“Your Master System is comprised of five components: 1) your core beliefs and unconscious rules, 2) your life values, 3) your references, 4) the habitual questions that you ask yourself, and 5) the emotional states you experience in each moment”.
“By changing any one of these five elements—whether it’s a core belief or rule, a value, a reference, a question, or an emotional state—you can immediately produce a powerful and measurable change in your life”.
“Remember: Success truly is the result of good judgment. Good judgment is the result of experience, and experience is often the result of bad judgment!”
“In order to succeed, you must have a long-term focus”.
“God’s delays are not God’s denials”.
“Often, what seems impossible in the short term becomes very possible in the long term if you persist”.
“Remember the true power of making decisions”.
“Realize that the hardest step in achieving anything is making a true commitment—a true decision”.
“A critical rule I’ve made for myself is never to leave the scene of a decision without first taking a specific action toward its realization”.
“Make decisions often and learn from them”.
“Ask yourself, ‘What’s good about this? What can I learn from this?'”
“Stay committed to your decisions, but stay flexible in your approach”.
“Know that it’s your decisions, and not your conditions, that determine your destiny”.
“Everything you and I do, we do either out of our need to avoid pain or our desire to gain pleasure”.
“For most people, the fear of loss is much greater than the desire for gain”.
“Why is it that people can experience pain yet fail to change? They haven’t experienced enough pain yet; they haven’t hit what I call emotional threshold”.
“If we link massive pain to any behavior or emotional pattern, we will avoid indulging in it at all costs”.
“It’s our neuro-associations— the associations we’ve established in our nervous systems—that determine what we’ll do”.
“Any time we’re in an intense emotional state, when we’re feeling strong sensations of pain or pleasure, anything unique that occurs consistently will become neurologically linked”.
“Most of us base our decisions about what to do on what’s going to create pain or pleasure in the short term instead of the long term”.
“It’s not actual pain that drives us, but our fear that something will lead to pain. And it’s not actual pleasure that drives us, but our belief—our sense of certainty—that somehow taking a certain action will lead to pleasure”.
“We’re not driven by the reality, but by our perception of reality”.
“Remember, anything you want that’s valuable requires that you break through some short-term pain in order to gain long-term pleasure”.
“It’s not the events of our lives that shape us, but our beliefs as to what those events mean”.
“It’s never the environment; it’s never the events of our lives, but the meaning we attach to the events—how we interpret them—that shapes who we are today and who we’ll become tomorrow”.
“What are our beliefs designed for? They’re the guiding force to tell us what will lead to pain and what will lead to pleasure”.
“Whenever something happens in your life, your brain asks two questions: 1) Will this mean pain or pleasure? 2) What must I do now to avoid pain and/or gain pleasure?”
“The challenge is threefold: 1) most of us do not consciously decide what we’re going to believe; 2) often our beliefs are based on misinterpretation of past experiences; and 3) once we adopt a belief, we forget it’s merely an interpretation”.
“Global beliefs are the giant beliefs we have about everything in our lives: beliefs about our identities, people, work, time, money, and life itself, for that matter”.
“These giant generalizations are often phrased as is/am/are: ‘Life is…’ ‘I am…’ ‘People are …’.”
“If you can think of an idea as being like a tabletop with no legs, you’ll have a fair representation of why an idea doesn’t feel as certain as a belief. Without any legs, that tabletop won’t even stand up by itself. Belief, on the other hand, has legs. If you really believe, ‘I’m sexy’, how do you know you’re sexy? Isn’t it true that you have some references to support the idea—some experiences in life to back it up? Those are the legs that make your tabletop solid, that make your belief certain”.
“Sometimes we gather references through information we get from other people, or from books, tapes, movies, and so on. And sometimes we form references based solely on our imagination”.
“The strongest and most solid legs are formed by personal experiences that we have a lot of emotion attached to because they were painful or pleasurable experiences”.
“If you develop the absolute sense of certainty that powerful beliefs provide, then you can get yourself to accomplish virtually anything, including those things that other people are certain are impossible”.
“The most effective way is to get your brain to associate massive pain to the old belief”.
“New experiences trigger change only if they cause us to question our beliefs. Remember, whenever we believe something, we no longer question it in any way”.
“If you question anything enough, eventually you’ll begin to doubt it”.
“I’ve classified beliefs into three categories: opinions, beliefs, and convictions”.
“An opinion is something we feel relatively certain about, but the certainty is only temporary because it can be changed easily”.
“A belief, on the other hand, is formed when we begin to develop a much larger base of reference legs, and especially reference legs about which we have strong emotion”.
“A conviction, however, eclipses a belief, primarily because of the emotional intensity a person links to an idea. A person holding a conviction does not only feel certain, but gets angry if their conviction is even questioned. A person with a conviction is unwilling to ever question their references, even for a moment; they are totally resistant to new input, often to the point of obsession”.
“Someone with a conviction is so passionate about their belief that they’re even willing to risk rejection or make a fool of themselves for the sake of their conviction”.
“So how can you create a conviction? 1) Start with the basic belief. 2) Reinforce your belief by adding new and more powerful references. 3) Then find a triggering event, or else create one of your own. Associate yourself fully by asking, ‘What will it cost me if I don’t?’ Ask questions that create emotional intensity for you. 4) Finally, take action. Each action you take strengthens your commitment and raises the level of your emotional intensity and conviction”.
“The way to expand our lives is to model the lives of those people who are already succeeding. It’s just a matter of asking questions: ‘What do you believe makes you different? What are the beliefs you have that separate you from others?'”
“At the end of each day I ask myself these questions: What have I learned today? What did I contribute or improve? What did I enjoy?”
“NAC is a step-by-step process that can condition your nervous system to associate pleasure to those things you want to continuously move toward and pain to those things you need to avoid in order to succeed consistently in your life without constant effort or willpower”.
“We all want to change either 1) how we feel about things or 2) our behaviors”.
“There are three specific beliefs about responsibility that a person must have if they’re going to create long-term change: 1) First, we must believe, ‘Something must change’—not that it should change, not that it could or ought to, but that it absolutely must. Second, we must not only believe that things must change, but we must believe, ‘I must change it’. Third, we have to believe, ‘I can change it’.”
“Each time we experience a significant amount of pain or pleasure, our brains search for the cause and record it in our nervous systems to enable us to make better decisions about what to do in the future”.
“Any time you experience significant amounts of pain or pleasure, your brain immediately searches for the cause. It uses the following three criteria. 1. Your brain looks for something that appears to be unique. 2. Your brain looks for something that seems to be happening simultaneously. 3. Your brain looks for consistency”.
“So often we blame the wrong cause, and thereby close ourselves off from possible solutions”.
“The difference between acting badly or brilliantly is not based on your ability, but on the state of your mind and/or body in any given moment”.
“Emotion is created by motion”.
“Focus on where you want to go, not on what you fear”.
“Our ability to change the way we feel depends upon our ability to change our submodalities”.
“You’ve got to be in a determined state in order to succeed”.
“I began to realize that thinking itself is nothing but the process of asking and answering questions”.
“Quality questions create a quality life”.
“A genuine quality of life comes from consistent, quality questions”.
“Questions accomplish three specific things: 1. Questions immediately change what we’re focusing on and therefore how we feel. 2. Questions change what we delete. 3. Questions change the resources available to us”.
“You and I can change how we feel in an instant, just by changing our focus”.
“One of the ways that I’ve discovered to increase the quality of my life is to model the habitual questions of people I really respect”.
“The words you habitually choose also affect how you communicate with yourself and therefore what you experience”.
“People with an impoverished vocabulary live an impoverished emotional life; people with rich vocabularies have a multi-hued palette of colors with which to paint their experience, not only for others, but for themselves as well”.
“Simply by changing your habitual vocabulary—the words you consistently use to describe the emotions of your life—you can instantaneously change how you think, how you feel, and how you live”.
“If we want to change our lives and shape our destiny, we need to consciously select the words we’re going to use, and we need to constantly strive to expand our level of choice”.
“Setting goals is the first step in turning the invisible into the visible—the foundation for all success in life”.
“All goal setting must be immediately followed by both the development of a plan, and massive and consistent action toward its fulfillment”.
“It’s not just getting a goal that matters, but the quality of life you experience along the way”.
“Remember, our goal is not to ignore the problems of life, but to put ourselves in better mental and emotional states where we can not only come up with solutions but act upon them”.
“We must remember that all decision-making comes down to values clarification”.
“The only way for us to have long-term happiness is to live by our highest ideals, to consistently act in accordance with what we believe our life is truly about”.
“Many people know what they want to have, but have no idea of who they want to be”.
“Remember that your values—whatever they are—are the compass that is guiding you to your ultimate destiny”.
“Anytime you have difficulty making an important decision, you can be sure that it’s the result of being unclear about your values”.
“To value something means to place importance upon it; anything that you hold dear can be called a ‘value’.”
“So often people are too busy pursuing means values that they don’t achieve their true desire: their ends values”.
“The hierarchy of your values is controlling the way you make decisions in each moment”.
“We must remember, then, that any time we make a decision about what to do, our brain first evaluates whether that action can possibly lead to either pleasurable or painful states”.
“Most of us have created numerous ways to feel bad, and only a few ways to truly feel good”.
“How do we know if a rule empowers or disempowers us? There are three primary criteria: 1. It’s a disempowering rule if it’s impossible to meet. 2. A rule is disempowering if something that you can’t control determines whether your rule has been met or not. 3. A rule is disempowering if it gives you only a few ways to feel good and lots of ways to feel bad”.
“Once we design our values, we must decide what evidence we need to have before we give ourselves pleasure. We need to design rules that will move us in the direction of our values, that will clearly be achievable, using criteria we can control personally so that we’re ringing the bell instead of waiting for the outside world to do it”.
“If you ever feel angry or upset with someone, remember, it’s your rules that are upsetting you, not their behavior”.
“The ‘must’ and the ‘must never’ rules are threshold rules; the ‘should’ and ‘should never’ rules are personal standard rules”.
“Design your rules so that you’re in control, so that the outside world is not what determines whether you feel good or bad. Set it up so that it’s incredibly easy for you to feel good, and incredibly hard to feel bad”.
“The larger the number and greater the quality of our references, the greater our potential level of choices. A larger number and greater quality of references enables us to more effectively evaluate what things mean and what we can do”.
“Once again, it’s not our references, but our interpretations of them, the way we organize them—that clearly determine our beliefs”.
“The key is to expand the references that are available within your life. Consciously seek out experiences that expand your sense of who you are and what you’re capable of, as well as organize your references in empowering ways”.
“The way we use our references will determine how we feel, because whether something is good or bad is all based on what you’re comparing it to”.
“You are not even limited to your own personal experiences as references. You can borrow the references of other people”.
“Limited references create a limited life. If you want to expand your life, you must expand your references by pursuing ideas and experiences that wouldn’t be a part of your life if you didn’t consciously seek them out”.
“We all will act consistently with our views of who we truly are, whether that view is accurate or not”.
“As we develop new beliefs about who we are, our behavior will change to support the new identity”.
“If you’ve repeatedly attempted to make a particular change in your life, only to continually fall short, invariably the challenge is that you were trying to create a behavioral or emotional shift that was inconsistent with your belief about who you are”.

The Ultimate Success Formula
Decide what you want
Take action
Notice what’s working or not
Change your approach until you achieve what you want


-------------------------------------
Notes from Friends
--------------------------------

The Book In Three Sentences
“The past doesn’t equal the future. It’s in the moment of decision that your destiny is shaped”.
“Whatever you think about most you’ll experience”.
“The fastest way to change how you feel about anything is to change what you’re focusing on”.
The Five Big Ideas
“Almost all the changes we want to make fall into one of two categories: either we want to change the way we feel about things, or we want to change our actions”.
“You can change anything in your life today by changing your perceptions and changing your actions”.
“Your past does not equal the future”.
“The key to success is to decide what’s most important to you and then take massive action each day to make it better, even when it doesn’t look as if it’s working”.
“Ultimately, it’s our decisions, not the conditions of our lives that determine our destiny”


---------------------------------
Eat That Frog by Brian Tracy
---------------------------------

“The key to reaching high levels of performance and productivity is to develop the lifelong habit of tackling your major task first thing each morning.”
“Think about your goals and review them daily. Every morning when you begin, take action on the most important task you can accomplish to achieve your most important goal at the moment.”
“Think on paper.”
“Always work from a list.”
“Your ability to choose between the important and the unimportant is the key determinant of your success in life and work.”


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
“Deep Work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted World” by Cal Newport (Book Summary)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deep Work by Cal Newport is a book about the science of productivity. Cal argues the best way to get more meaningful work done is by working deeply – working in a state of high concentration without distractions on a single task.

The book is split into two parts. The first explains why deep work maximizes productivity and why only few people practice it. The second part shows us how to actually do it and make deep work a regular practice in our lives.

The author, Cal Newport, is currently an assistant professor of computer science at Georgetown, author of multiple books including So Good They Can’t Ignore You, and owner of his well-known Study Hacks blog.

This is definitely one of my favorite productivity books and I’d recommend it for anyone who wants to get serious and worthwhile work done in the age of dramatic distraction we live in today.

Who Is Deep Work For?
Anyone who wants to increase their productivity, especially knowledge workers
Anyone who wants to get more done, but in less time
Anyone interested in the science of multitasking, attention, and productivity
1. What Is Deep Work?
“Deep Work: Professional activities performed in a state of distraction-free concentration that push your cognitive capabilities to their limit. These efforts create new value, improve your skill, and are hard to replicate.”
“Shallow Work: Noncognitively demanding, logistical-style tasks, often performed while distracted. These efforts tend to not create much new value in the world and are easy to replicate.”
Cal Newport differs between deep work and shallow work. Deep work refers to distraction-free, high concentration work that improves your skills, creates a lot of value in little time, and is very hard to replicate.

Shallow work refers to working on noncognitively demanding tasks with little focus and often while distracted. This type of working is easy to replicate. Think: checking emails every couple of minutes, responding to push notifications, and giving in to distractions like Facebook, Twitter, News websites, and so on.

The hypothesis of the book is that the ability to perform deep work is becoming increasingly rare at exactly the same time it is becoming increasingly valuable. As a consequence, the few who cultivate this skill and make it a core of their working lives will thrive.

This skill of deep work is so valuable that business writer and bestselling author Eric Barker has called it the superpower of the 21st century.

2. Why Deep Work Is Rare, Yet Highly Valuable
“The Deep Work Hypothesis: The ability to perform deep work is becoming increasingly rare at exactly the same time it is becoming increasingly valuable in our economy. As a consequence, the few who cultivate this skill, and then make it the core of their working life, will thrive.”
Why is deep work rare? For starters, shallow work is easier. In addition, shallow work seems to be encouraged by most businesses. Think: constant connectivity, expectations of fast response times, or open plan offices. Employees, choosing the path of least resistance, will simply adopt to this type of shallow-work-inducing environment by, well, working in a shallow manner.

According to Newport, most workers today succumb to something he calls increasingly visible busyness or busyness as proxy for productivity. In the absence of clear indicators of what it means to be valuable and productive at work, many knowledge workers turn toward an industrial indicator of productivity: doing lots of stuff in a visible manner.

Cal Newport sums it up: “Deep work is hard and shallow work is easier and in the absence of clear goals for your job, the visible busyness that surrounds shallow work becomes self-preserving.”

Why is deep work valuable? In short, because it maximizes the amount of productivity you can squeeze out of a certain amount of time.

And the reason for that is quite simple. Deep work refers to single-tasking, without distractions, in a state of intense focus, for extended periods of time. Let’s unpack how each of these help us maximize productivity.

Single-tasking. Research has proven over and over again that multitasking makes people less productive. Without a doubt, focusing on one task at a time maximizes productive output. (For more info on the benefits of single-tasking, check out the summary of The Happiness Track by Emma Seppäla!)
Without distractions. This makes intuitive sense. You get more work done when you’re not constantly interrupted by distractions.
Intense focus. If you can put all of your energy on the task at hand without distraction, you’ll get a lot more work done in less time. The more focused you are, the more productive.
For extended periods of time. This has to do with a concept called attention residue, which we’ll discuss in the next point.
3. Beware of Attention Residue
“…when you switch from some Task A to another Task B, your attention doesn’t immediately follow – a residue of your attention remains stuck thinking about the original task. This residue gets especially thick if your work on Task A was unbounded and of low intensity before you switched, but even if you finish Task A before moving on, your attention remains divided for a while.”
“…the common habit of working in a state of semi-distraction is potentially devastating to your performance. It might seem harmless to take a quick glance at your inbox every ten minutes or so. Indeed, many justify this behavior as better than the old practice of leaving an inbox open on the screen at all times (a straw-man habit that few follow anymore). But Leroy teaches us that this is not in fact much of an improvement. That quick check introduces a new target for your attention. Even worse, by seeing messages that you cannot deal with at the moment (which is almost always the case), you’ll be forced to turn back to the primary task with a secondary task left unfinished.”
Attention residue is one of the big reasons why working deeply for extended periods of time is so beneficial for our productivity.

This concept states that every time you’re switching from one task to another, a residue of your attention remains stuck thinking about the previous task. This makes it hard to work with the necessary focus and intensity required for deep work on the new task. As a result, you lose a little bit of productivity every time you switch tasks.

Cal mentions an interesting study in the book. Participants started off working on a set of word puzzles. In one of the trials, they’d get interrupted and told they needed to move to a new and challenging task, in this case, reading résumés and making hypothetical hiring decisions. In other trials, the researchers let participants finish the puzzles first. In between puzzle solving and hiring, the researchers would deploy a quick lexical decision game to quantify the amount of residue left from the first task.

The results? In the words of the lead researcher of this and similar experiments: “People experiencing attention residue after switching tasks are likely to demonstrate poor performance on that next task.”

If you’re looking to maximize your productive output, work for extended periods with full concentration on a single task free from distraction. In other words, work deeply.

4. Deep Work Is a Skill
“…getting the most out of your deep work habit requires training, and as clarified previously, this training must address two goals: improving your ability to concentrate intensely and overcoming your desire for distraction.”
Cal mentions a couple of times that the ability to do deep work needs to be fostered over a long period of time. If a newbie starts working deeply, he will not be working as deeply and for as long a time period as someone who’s been doing deep work for many months or years.

In other words, deep work is a skill that needs to be practiced. Don’t expect to be able to work deeply for hours on end in the beginning. You might only have the concentration and energy to do it for an hour or two a day. But slowly, slowly, as you keep honing in on the skill, you’ll be able to work deeply and produce massive amounts of work and reap all the benefits of deep work.

According to Newport, the two core skills needed for deep work are the ability to concentrate intensely and the ability to overcome the desire for distraction. Both sub-skills improve the overall skill of deep work.

5. The Four Rules of Deep Work
So, deep work is valuable. It maximizes productivity. Yada yada.

The hard part isn’t knowing that deep work is valuable. The hard part is actually doing it. Why? Because we’re addicted to distractions. We are suckers for multitasking.

The second part of the book is all about helping us deploy more deep work in our lives. To do that, Newport has come up with the following 4 rules:

Rule #1: Work Deeply
Rule #2: Embrace Boredom
Rule #3: Quit Social Media
Rule #4: Drain the Shallows
Let’s briefly go over them one by one.

Rule #1: Work Deeply. Working deeply, due to its effortful nature, is the very thing most of us don’t want to do. Add to this an environment and culture that makes deep work difficult, and a finite amount of willpower that gets depleted as we use it, and you have a recipe for shallow work. To make deep work a staple in our day-to-day lives, we need to create rituals and routines that make things easier and more automatic for us.

Rule #2: Embrace Boredom. Intense concentration is a skill that must be trained. Much like athletes who must take care of their bodies outside of their training sessions, you’ll need to take care of your concentration outside of your deep work sessions. If, throughout your day-to-day life, you give in to distractions at the slightest hint of boredom, you’ll struggle to develop the type of intense concentration necessary for deep work.

Even worse, you’ll literally train and rewire your brain for on-demand distraction. The result? You’ll be wired for getting distracted over and over again even if you want to concentrate and work deeply.

The solution? Embrace boredom. Stop checking your inbox or looking at your smartphone at every opportunity you get. Train your ability to resist distractions.

Rule #3: Quit Social Media. Social media is the prime example for shallow living. As Cal points out, just because it offers a little benefit, doesn’t mean it’s worth the time we give it. You simply can’t work deeply if you feel the need to hop on social media every couple of minutes. Due to its addictive nature, social media and deep living don’t go well together.

Rule #4: Drain the Shallows. The Shallows is the name of a book written on the effects of the Internet on our brains and lives. Shallow work, if you recall, refers to answering emails, making phone calls, attending to meetings, and other inevitable but ultimately low-value tasks. If you’re serious about working deeply, you need to drain the Shallows – you need to schedule time for deep work and spend as little time on shallow work as possible. Don’t let shallow work get in the way of deep work.

6. Use Routines to Ritualize Deep Work
“That brings me to the motivating idea behind the strategies that follow: The key to developing a deep work habit is to move beyond good intentions and add routines and rituals to your working life designed to minimize the amount of your limited willpower necessary to transition into and maintain a state of unbroken concentration. If you suddenly decide, for example, in the middle of a distracted afternoon spent Web browsing, to switch your attention to a cognitively demanding task, you’ll draw heavily from your finite willpower to wrest your attention away from the online shininess. Such attempts will therefore frequently fail. On the other hand, if you deployed smart routines and rituals—perhaps a set time and quiet location used for your deep tasks each afternoon—you’d require much less willpower to start and keep going. In the long run, you’d therefore succeed with these deep efforts far more often.”
Working deeply in a world that constantly pushes us towards shallow work is difficult. In order to achieve this feat, we need to create rituals and routines that are designed to minimize the amount of willpower necessary to transition into and maintain a block of unbroken concentration.

According to Newport, there are broadly four approaches to systematically carving out time for deep work. (As mentioned previously, ad hoc approaches are less effective because they heavily rely on willpower and are thus hardly sustainable over the long-run.)

Choose an approach or mix approaches that fit your specific lifestyle.

>>Monastic Philosophy. This involves cutting yourself from distractions completely, like a monk in a monastery.

>>Bimodal Philosophy. This mode alternates between a normally engaged life and a monastic approach. Cal Jung, for example, alternated between his normal therapy practice and social life in Zurich and a fully removed monk mode in his retreat house for writing.

>>Rhythmic Philosophy. This involves a fixed time for deep work every day, such as between 5-7 a.m., or a fixed time for deep work throughout the week, such as every Monday and Thursday. Think: Jerry Seinfeld and his chain method.

>>Journalistic Philosophy. This is Cal’s main approach. He fits deep work into his schedule whenever he can, kind of like a journalist who’s ready to write on deadline whenever the situation arises.

Whatever works for you. The goal is to make deep work a staple in your life.

7. Say “Yes” to the Wildly Important
“As the authors of The 4 Disciplines of Execution explain, ‘The more you try to do, the less you actually accomplish.’ They elaborate that execution should be aimed at a small number of ‘wildly important goals.’ This simplicity will help focus an organization’s energy to a sufficient intensity to ignite real results.
For an individual focused on deep work, the implication is that you should identify a small number of ambitious outcomes to pursue with your deep work hours. The general exhortation to ‘spend more time working deeply’ doesn’t spark a lot of enthusiasm. In a 2014 column titled, ‘The Art of Focus,’ David Brooks endorsed this approach of letting ambitious goals drive focused behavior, explaining: ‘If you want to win the war for attention, don’t try to say ‘no’ to the trivial distractions you find on the information smorgasborg; try to say ‘yes’ to the subject that arouses a terrifying longing, and let the terrifying longing crowd out everything else.’”
Saying no to distractions just for the sake of saying no to distractions isn’t very motivating.  Saying no to distractions for the sake of achieving an ambitious goal, on the other hand, is highly motivating.

If Facebook gets in the way of that wildly important goal you’re pursuing, then you’ll feel compelled to avoid that distraction. It’s a lot easier to say no to distractions when you have a really big Yes that you’re pursuing.

This begs the question, what’s your wildly important goal? What’s the subject that arouses a terrifying longing in your heart? Figure it out, then banish distractions from your life and use deep work to make it happen as quickly as possible.

8. The Value of Systematic Idleness
“Decades of work from multiple different subfields within psychology all point toward the conclusion that regularly resting your brain improves the quality of your deep work. When you work, work hard. When you’re done, be done.”
Cal Newport argues that you should inject regular and substantial (!) leisure time – complete freedom from professional concerns – into your day. This systematic idleness, paradoxically enough, is required to get (deep) work done.

He offers three good reasons for this:

Downtime aids insights. Some decisions, it turns out, are better left to your unconscious mind to untangle. By occupying your conscious mind with leisure activities, you’ll be able to make better decisions and reach more insights.
Downtime helps recharge the energy needed to work deeply. The type of attention used during deep work – so-called directed attention – is a limited resource. In order to replenish that resource, you need to give it a break once in a while.
The work that downtime replaces is usually not that important. Your capacity for deep work in a given day is limited to only a couple of hours. Once you’ve used up those hours, any work that comes afterward is less productive and thus less important.
Note that when we’re talking about downtime, we’re not talking about shallow work and we’re not talking about activities that continue using your directed attention. Instead, we’re talking about true leisure time: going for a walk, having a casual conversation with a friend, listening to music, playing a game with your kids, or going for a run.

How do you incorporate more downtime into your days? Cal Newport recommends a shut-down ritual: At the end of your workday, shut down your considerations of work issues until the next morning – no after-dinner email checking, no mental replays of conversations, and no scheming about how you’ll handle an upcoming challenge. As best as you can, shut down work thinking completely.

Newport ends his workday by 5:30 p.m. and rarely works on weekends. Yet, he’s been able to write several best-selling books, publishes several scientific papers every year, and even won two competitive grants (whatever that is).

The point is: Productivity isn’t about putting in more hours. It’s about getting the most out of the hours you work AND getting the most recovery out of the hours you don’t work.

9. Get More Done in Less Time With Roosevelt Dashes
“This strategy asks you to inject the occasional dash of Rooseveltian intensity into your own workday. In particular, identify a deep task (that is, something that requires deep work to complete) that’s high on your priority list. Estimate how long you’d normally put aside for an obligation of this type, then give yourself a hard deadline that drastically reduces this time… Motivate yourself by setting a countdown timer on your phone and propping it up where you can’t avoid seeing it as you work.”
“At this point, there should be only one possible way to get the deep task done in time: working with great intensity – no email breaks, no daydreaming, no Facebook browsing, no repeated trips to the coffee machine. Like Roosevelt at Harvard, attack the task with every free neuron until it gives way under your unwavering barrage of concentration.”
Roosevelt dashes – inspired by Teddy Roosevelt’s brief but intense study periods – are a simple way to inject some deep work into your day. The beauty of these work sprints is that they are incompatible with distraction (there’s no way you can give in to distractions and still reach your deadline), thus improving your ability to resist such urges.

In addition, using these dashes regularly helps you achieve a new level of concentration. Why? Because they are like interval training for the concentration centers in your brain.

10. The Deep Life
”The deep life, of course, is not for everybody. It requires hard work and drastic changes to your habits. For many, there’s a comfort in the artificial busyness of rapid e-mail messaging and social media posturing. While the deep life demands that you leave much of that behind. There’s also an uneasiness that surrounds any effort to produce the best things you’re capable of producing, as this forces you to confront the possibility that your best is not (yet) that good.”
Let’s face it: Living and working deeply is a pain in the ass.

You need to constantly fight distractions, push yourself and your concentration to the limits, spend less time on social media, spend less time on the Internet, plan your days (even your leisure time!) in advance, and so on.

The deep life isn’t for everybody. For most people, it’s too much work and too much of a hassle. Much easier to give in to the comforts of artificial busyness. Much easier to waste away time on social media. Much easier to occupy yourself with shallow tasks. Much easier to give in to temptations whenever they arise.

However, if you’re serious about maximizing your productivity, deploying your mind to its fullest capacity, and getting big things done, then I’m afraid there’s no other (and no better) way than to pursue the deep life.

Cal Newport ends the book with a quote from writer Winifred Gallagher: “I’ll live the focused life, because it’s the best kind there is.”

जानवरों के डॉक्टर के पास एक Lady आई जिनके साथ एक high breed का कुत्ता था।
कहने लगी....
"मेरे कुत्ते के साथ अजीबो गरीब problem हो गई है।
मेरा कुत्ता बड़ा हट्टी (Disobidient) हो गया है.....
इसे अपने पास बुलाती हूँ तो ये दूर भाग जाता है।
Please कुछ करें.. 
I am very attached to him. I can not tolerate his indifference."
 डॉक्टर ने कुत्ते को ग़ौर से देखा।  पन्द्रह मिनट examin करने के बाद मैं  कहा...
ये कुत्ता एक रात के लिए मेरे पास छोड़ दें। मैं इसका observation कर के इलाज करूँगा।
उसने बडी बेदिली से हामी भर ली।
सब चले गए.....
डॉक्टर ने अपने assistant को आवाज़ दी...और कहा कि इसे भैंसों के साथ बांध दो और हर आधे घंटे पर इसे केवल पानी देना और इसको चमड़े के हन्टर से मारना।
डॉक्टर का assistant जट् आदमी था। 
रात भर कुत्ते के साथ हन्टर ट्रीटमेंट करता रहा।
दूसरे दिन लेडी आ धमकीं।
Sir 
what about my pup?
Doctor said__
Hope your pup has missed you too ......
डॉक्टर का assistant कुत्ते को ले आया़. 
ज्यों ही कुत्ता कमरे मे आया..छलांग लगा के madam की गोद मे आ बैठा, 
लगा दुम हिलाने, 
मुंह चाटने!!
Madam कहने लगीँ: 
सर, आपने इसके साथ क्या किया कि अचानक इसका यह हाल है?
डॉक्टर ने कहा: बड़े से एयर कंडीशनर कमरे, रोज़ अति स्वादिष्ट भोजन खा खाके ये अपने को मालिक समझ बैठा था और अपने मालिक की पहचान भूल बैठा था
 बस इसका यही वहम उतारने के लिए थोड़ा
Psychological plus physical treatment की ज़रूरत थी_ 
वह दे दी,----- 
now he is Okay...
सारांश ~~
किसीभी प्राणी को जितना सुख और ऐषोआराम मिलता हैं , वह उतना ही हठी बनता है और  हेकड़ी दिखाने लगता है ,
अनुकूल परिस्थिती प्राणी को निकम्मा बनाती है 
प्रतिकूल परिस्थिती प्राणी को सुधारती है 


HABITS
-------------
1. Never open multiple tabs on your browser because it overwhelms your mind and you’re not able to focus even on the single tab. Dedicate one browser for your work and others for entertainment.
2. Because dehydration causes you sleepiness, low blood pressure, headache, and dizziness. So, it’s important to keep yourself hydrated. In a day, men should drink 3.7 liters of water and women drink 2.7 liters of water.
3. Sitting, promote slows blood circulation in your legs, and your body starts to slow down. To reverse the effects, try to decrease the amount of time spent sitting. The research found out that, 87% of employees who used the standing desk reported feeling more energetic and focused.
4. If you start sleeping at the same time then you don’t even need an alarm clock. Because your mind will wake you up automatically. The mind loves to follow patterns and routines.

Vivekanand
=============
“Whatever you are doing, put your whole mind on it. If you are shooting, your mind should be only on the target. Then you will never miss. If you are learning your lessons, think only of the lesson. In my country boys are taught to do this.

SPOILING CHILDREN (How to spoil your child)
-------------------
1. When child wakes up (quite late, 8:30 am) ask child "Did your father give you water ? "
So now its responsibility of Father to give you water. Child thinks that its other persons responsibility to feed it.
Make it drink water, Apply moisturiser, Supply gifts, Supply everything. 

2. Always calling child with pet names like  Babu, Babadya, Pillu, Sonya, Monya. 
This way child always remains child. He never grows up. 
Also calling them with such names, natural response of child is to show laziness, responding slowly and pampered. 
Then there is extreme, Calling them with bad names like
Bavlat, Murkha, Nalayak. When you call your child with such names they tend to feel negative emotions in them and become like that. 

3. Pestering your child with certain things like Do this, Do that. 

4. Best way to teach a child is by action. That is natural for them to learn anything. 
for e.g 
 > If you want your child to wake up early, you start waking up early
 > If you want your child to do things quickly, you start doing things quickly
 > If you want your child not to watch TV, Mobile. Then you should stop watching TV and mobile in the first place 
 > If you want your child to study hard, You yourself start working hard in your area. 
   You can't sleep around while child is studying. OR you can't watch TV when child is studying. 

5. Dont give mobile phones, Tablets to Kids 



