// --------------------
// Introduction 
// --------------------
Hello, I am Girish. I work as Lead developer with Agiliad. 
My Experience is about 13 years in software development. 
I have been responsible for developing various tools and features in some of the products in CAD and medical domain. 
I know C++, QT, Javascript and QML. Batch scripts to perform some build related work. which is monotonous in nature.
I understand cmake to some extent where I can use it build some simple projects using some third party libraries


Past experience is I worked for Delcam for 8 and half years
It was in CAD domain. My work involved visualization using openGL and C++.
I worked in MFC to some extent. So designing UI using forms , networks and backend support involving file handling etc. 

Pipe creation using solids, 
Sculpting tool which involved triangle mesh manipulation using some tools and maths. 
Creating 2D patterns from 3D. 
using third party DLL to create 2D pattern file with all the input details to help create lasting allowance , tratments 

THickness analysis tool for dental
whee we can create a cap for bad tooth root canal. Whether this cap is correctly fitting on tooth need to be termined using thickness 

, In Agiliad I worked on multiple projects. 

1. Scout development project for analogic, liver segmentation. MFC and VTK and C++. Ablation zone, using VTK libraries. PFD report generation. 
Fixing some crash in software etc. Paint some vessels using texture and cursor. IncreaseDecrease size of the cursor. 

2. Hip surgery tool using QT, VTK and camera libraries, OpenCV etc. 
We imported DICOM data, STL data representing a model pelvic gurdle. 
Perform some operations for planning the surgery. 
Using 2D and 3D graphics for reamer tool. 

3. Remote HMI in QML and web sockets. Input was XML file containing GUI of server application. 
We created client application using QML where we parse that XML file and generate QML compoents on FLY and recreating UI 
in the client application. WHen user perfomed some events in client appliction we send these events to server and server would 
take appropriate action. Events are sent in JSON messages. 

4. Mammography tool which was developed using C++ and QML and C#. Product works in distributed environment. Backend is developed using C#
Web tool using angular. and Front end using C++ and QML. I was responsible for UI enhancement and adding some features such as Multiple
read operation by doctor. Assign patients to Doctors. Etc. 

// ------------------------------------------------------------------------
// As a wealthy person, what are your tips for financial independence?
// ------------------------------------------------------------------------
My top 7:

I’ve seen both sides. The view from the penthouse is a hell of a lot better.

Retirement. Whoever thought that was a good idea? Resign, revise, retool, redesign. Honestly, you’ll probably hit your stride after several years of experience. I did. Why give up the earnings? And with income you’ll hit financial independence sooner.
Contentment. Reduce how much money you need to be happy and you reduce how much you need to be financially independent. Pretty simple. That’s why I could figured it out. Determine how much you really need. Focus on that. Then you’ll achieve it.
Debt. Don’t finance or lease depreciating assets like cars, boats, RV’s, motorcycles. If you can’t afford to pay cash then you can’t afford it. Mandatory payments keep you from financial independence. Choose. Independence or toys?
Value. Want to make more money? You need to become more financially valuable. I’m not talking about your value as a person. Or how special your mom said you are. If you want to make more you need to become worth more.
Enjoyment. Find something you enjoy doing. Then don’t quit. Might take you a few ventures. That’s ok. It took me several. But once you find it, you’ll be more content. You’ll enjoy increasing your value. And you’ll want to keep going.
Vision. Create a vision of what financial independence looks like for you. And why you want it. Write it down. Keep revisiting it. Revising it. Dreaming about it. And working towards it. It’s your North Star and compass.
Gaming. Make it a game. Not against anyone else. Just you. Measure how you’re doing. Keep score. Celebrate your successes. Learn from your mistakes. Compete to make yourself the best version of you. And you will.
So go for it. Jump in the game.

And tell me how you like the view from the penthouse.

Keep dreaming about financial independence. One day you’ll wake up and realize you’re no longer dreaming.


// -------------------------------------
// How to create video tutorials
// -------------------------------------
You can use Camstudio  software for recording videos. Store them in mp4 and use some codec which will reduce the size of 
mp4 files. and then you can upload them. 

